So in the last lecture we have created a simple test that verified that for a new blog post that we
have added using model factory when we call an endpoint for the comments we'll get a proper HP resp
Response.
The JASONs structure will contain specific elements and that other data element there will be zero entries.
So now let's make another test and will this time check whether our blog post has 10 comments.
Of course we will generate those comments beforehand so we can reuse this factory call to generate a
blog post and then we can use each method on the collection because this actually creates our collection
and for each blog post we will generate some comments so we can also use some model factories for that
but will save them using their comments relationship save many method.
So now you go factory on that comment so make sure you import the correct one from the app comment namespace
always verify this and now the second argument to the factory method is the amount of the models you
would like to create.
So you can see that in this case we just called factor and blog post which created a single blog post
and now we want 10 of those.
Now we can use the make method which will create the model in memory but won't save it yet because what
we need to do with the comment is we also have to specify a user I.D. and for that what we can do is
you can also call their user method from our base test case class and specify their I.D..
Now let us also the semicolon.
And now let's explain what we actually did here.
So we have created our blog post using the model factory and immediately we have called Create which
actually stored this inside the database and to the methods like create and make you can pass some additional
parameters so we had to pass user I.D. because Lavell wouldn't know for which user you'd like to save
it.
And since we have a constraint on a database this will prevent saving this blog post without a user
I.D..
Now for each blog post generated.
And as I've said we have only one we iterate over those blog posts and for the specific post using the
comments relationship and its method save many.
We generate a collection of comments 10 comments and we use make method and you might remember the difference
they create creates the model in memory and then saves saves it to the database but instead make only
creates that in memory.
And the reason we have to do that is well first we also have to specify the user I.D. but also thanks
to this using the Commons relationship and safe manner all of those comments will actually automatically
have the commendable idea said to this blog post a lot of us will just know to which to which bar and
model you'd like to save it because if you wouldn't do it do it this way you wouldn't call the Commons
relationship and it's save many method then instead you would like to create this factory and for each
of those make calls you will have to add a commendable idea and commendable type keys inside there's
a right to lateral to tell travel to which model this comment should be associated.
So I hope this is understandable.
And now what you can do is you can also copy this code so let's do that because as I've said the refresh
database trade that we use here will reset that as database on each test so it doesn't matter that we
have created a blog post here it will it will just disappear after we run this test.
So in this case we also would like to verify that there is like 200 Coulter returned.
We also would like to verify that the adjacent structure contains those top elements but this time we
would like to check whether a data contains 10 elements.
So now let's run it now you can see that we have got the error that states there is 404.
When we tried to get the comment with I.D. one.
And even though I said we have the refresh database straight which will reset the database before each
test actually it removed the elements and well the indexes start with two now.
So actually the order of tests matter.
So if you will just try to get the next one from the poll which is the I.D. two and run the tests again
you can see everything is passing.
So this is a simple test.
We check whether we have ten elements but if you will go to the postman you can see that there is actually
some structure inside those data elements.
And now let's see how we can verify if it actually contains every element that we would like it to have.
So how we can do that is we can extend this as a Jason structure a little bit
and for data we would be checking whether this contains some elements and you can do that using the
asterisk.
And what that means is well it contains some elements which structure should contain those keys and
we want I.D. We want the content created at updated art.
And then there is the user which itself has to have an I.D. and a name so safety changes.
And now let's rerun this test and you can see that it's all green.
So this might seem a little bit complicated.
And the problem is that it's not really well documented in light of all but how you can read that is
that you want an Jason element with the key data.
And now this element should contain a lot of other elements.
In this case we would like it to have this element contains other objects inside.
So we assume it's an array and we use this notation with the key with an asterisk and then an array
to check whether those elements all of those elements inside the data actually contain objects with
which has those keys like I.D. content et cetera.
So if you will take a look again you can see that.
Well this is actually matching the structure that we got from this end point.
And if you make a slight this change like change the contents like that and rerun this test you will
see that this actually has break.
And it's saying that failed asserting that an airy array has the key content.
So this is how you can verify whether the Jason response has some specific data are not necessarily
exact values but some data in some specific structure.
And also if the count of those elements is matching the expected numbers.